#My experience with interview at Google
###I am an international student with disability with my movement. I just had finished my onsite interview with Google for a position Software Engineer, at Google headquarter – the Googleplex in Mountain View, California. Right now, I’m still waiting for an official response from Google. I’m writing this paper to share my experience.  By Google policies, I’m recommended not to publish exactly what they asked.  But I could share the general process, and my experience. 
###My story with google began on last year 2015, when I asked them for an internship. But I got rejected in the end, they didn’t give me their reason though.  They sent me a email of rejection. At that time, I thought that was the end for me with Google. They also reminded me that I can re-apply next time, but I was sad enough. At that time, I didn’t think I would apply anymore with them.
###This year, around the summer, I received an email from Google's campus engagement team. This time, they said had interests they still had interests with my profile and they wanted to re-connect with me. Then, they asked if I was hired or I applied for any company yet, and they offered.  At that time, I still didn’t apply for any company, then I thought I should try one more time for no loss.  Then, after looking through my profile from last year, they recommend that I should apply for a full-time software engineer. And I did as they recommended me. After 1 or 2 video chat via Google hangouts and emails, they asked about my background and adding any new updates into the profile they had. These step was simply to submit my application.
###The next step was to take a snapshot survey and an online coding sample. And they gave me 7 days to finish them all.  They all were included in an email and links for them were all one-use only. The coding sample was kind of online coding test, the time limit for this one was one hour, I made sure to pick my best time with best preparation before click those link. My coding sample included 2 functions supposed to be implemented by me in 60 minutes. They gave you problem statements, and sample input and output. 
###The format of coding sample they gave me was very similar to algorithmic competitions on Topcoder. However, I performed the coding sample not as well as I expected. I got the first problem done very well, but couldn’t finish the second one. The second problem was kind of hard-code after I got the best algorithmic complexity, but I couldn’t get it implemented well due to the time limit. The only point I had was I did well on the approaching, although I couldn’t finish it. Well, after having it done not completely well, I expected another rejection.
###After couples of days, I got email from Google, that I was officially offered an onsite interview at Googleplex. They introduced me with an recruiter at Google. And he will work directly with me from now on. We processed another scheduled chat through Google hangouts, in order to learn what to do before the onsite interview.
###Due to my disability, a recruiting coordinator joined in working with me to prepare accommodations for my onsite interview. Examples of accommodations they have previously provided include an accessible interview/hotel room, someone to escort you through the airport, a travel companion, and/or a rolling whiteboard.
###The next steps were to fill an employment form and pick a date of onsite interview. I picked the last Friday right before thanksgiving break, November 18th as my best time for the interview, and couples of more Fridays as alternatives. Then they agreed scheduling my onsite interview on my best time I suggested. My onsite interview was scheduled on Nov 18.
###Next, Google travel team joined in working with my travel plan. After we settled things, by filling forms, emails and onphone, I and my companion would travel from GA to CA on November 17th, and take the flight back on November 19th. Google reserved separated rooms for us in Grand Hotel, which was closed to the Googleplex. All of these expenses were paid by Google.
###The taxi reservation was a bit different, I the candidate was informed to pay for taxi at first, I was instructed to keep these receipts, and submit them later to Google for reimbursement. The reimbursement means Google would pay back to you expenses on trip, as long as every expense have a receipt. 
###I prepared for my onsite kind of wildly. I was asking around. There’re a lot of different recommendations from different people. I trusted mostly recommendations from 2 friends of mine, who was having internship at Google, and who was officially working at Google. As they said, I need most to focus on my strong point, which was algorithmic programming. They would mostly ask about it on the onsite interview. It’s reasonable that “Nobody knows everything. But they will hire you because they need your strong point as you listed, they don’t need your weakness”. With my many-year experienced in algorithmic programming, I should take it easy, as my friends expected.
###My onsite interview was processed as in schedule. I worked with  4 different interviewers. Each of them will work with me in 45 minutes. After 3 of 4 interviews, it was the lunch time. An employer joined in escorting me around Google, and we had our lunch together.  During lunch, he friendly informed how good to work here… After that, I headed back to finish my last interview.
###Each interview started with a simple and basic programming task. I was supposed to solve them. Then interviewer would extend the problem with more constraints and requirements. Then I was again asked to solve the new one, based on the last one I solved. 
###The difficulty was that I coded barely on Google docs in front of their eyes. I did not use any IDE. This can’t guarantee my code could be compiled without errors. But the point is that I explained properly about my idea and the algorithm I used. So, I think I did well.
###Right now, I’m waiting for official response from Google. It will be accepted or rejected. But thanks to Google, I had a good trip to California, and a good experience.

